README.md, before:

# Awesome SDE(Stochastic Differential Equation)
About Stochastic Differential Equation...

List of some reference books.

Link:

1.Applied Stochastic Differential Equations by Simo Särkkä
[Book](./Applied%20stochastic%20differential%20equations%20(Saarkk,%20Simo%20Solin,%20Arno).pdf), [Code](https://github.com/AaltoML/SDE)

2.An introduction to computational Stochastic PDEs by Gabriel J.Lord 
[Book](./Introduction%20to%20stochastic%20calculus%20with%20application_Kelbaner.pdf), [Code](./PICSPDE-PICSPDE/)

Our code [Personal code](https://github.com/Zebrainy-cgy/learnSDE)

About Optimal Transport...

List of some reference books.

[Optimal Transport for Applied Mathematicians by Filippo Santambrogio](https://link.springer.com/book/10.1007/978-3-319-20828-2)

[Computational Optimal Transport: With Applications to Data Science](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8641476)

About Control theory...

[An Introduction to Mathematical Optimal Control Theory by Lawrence C. Evans](https://math.berkeley.edu/~evans/control.course.pdf)

[Kalman filter](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kalman_filter#)

About Backward stochastic differential equations...

[Nonlinear Expectations, Nonlinear Evaluations and Risk Measures by Peng](https://link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.1007/978-3-540-44644-6_4.pdf)

[Backward Stochastic Differential Equations in Finance by N.El Karoui S.Peng and M.C.Quenez](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/1467-9965.00022)

## Seminar slides
[18/10/2024] Conditional expectation Brownian motion and stochastic integrals(Shao,Guojiang)[Video](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1KKCmY4E55/?spm_id_from=333.999.0.0&vd_source=4bc987028313212ccd814d6c4d888423) [Note](./Notes/Shao_Class_A%20First%20Course%20Of%20Sde.pdf)

[25/10/2024] Ito formula and SDEs(Shao,Guojiang)[Video](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV15myXYoEdY/?spm_id_from=333.1007.top_right_bar_window_history.content.click&vd_source=4bc987028313212ccd814d6c4d888423) [Note](./Notes/Shao-Class-Second%20Course%20Of%20Sde.pdf)

[01/11/2024] Numerical methods for Ito SODEs(Chen,Guanyu)[Video](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1JUSdYpEAs/?spm_id_from=333.999.0.0&vd_source=4bc987028313212ccd814d6c4d888423) 
[Note](./Notes/3_Guanyu_class_note.pdf)

[09/11/2024] Stationary Process and Random Field(Chen,Guanyu)[Video](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1anDzY8EKU/?spm_id_from=333.880.my_history.page.click&vd_source=4bc987028313212ccd814d6c4d888423) 
[Note](./Notes/4_Guanyu_class_note.pdf)

[15/11/2024] Introduction to SPDEs and its Numerical methods (Chen,Guanyu)[Video](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV14fmZYvEpE/?spm_id_from=333.999.0.0&vd_source=4bc987028313212ccd814d6c4d888423) 
[Note](./Notes/5_Guanyu_note.pdf)
## Paper

[Arxiv 2017] [Deep learning-based numerical methods for high-dimensional parabolic partial differential equations and backward stochastic differential equations](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1706.04702)

[JMLR 2020] [Reinforcement Learning in Continuous Time and Space: A Stochastic Control Approach](https://www.jmlr.org/papers/volume21/19-144/19-144.pdf)

[JMLR 2023] [q-Learning in Continuous Time](https://www.jmlr.org/papers/volume24/22-0755/22-0755.pdf)

[Arxiv 2022] [Stochastic Physics-Informed Neural Ordinary Differential Equations](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2109.01621)

[University of Calgary 2021] [Deep Learning-based Numerical Methods for Stochastic Partial Differential Equations and Applications](https://prism.ucalgary.ca/server/api/core/bitstreams/b7211227-7bce-4b1a-81d4-80a35c37c680/content)

[Applied Mathematical Modelling 2023] [Neural network stochastic differential equation models with applications to financial data forecasting](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0307904X22005340)

[Numerical Algebra, Control and Optimization 2023] [Inverse problems for stochastic partial differential equations: Some progresses and open problems](https://www.aimsciences.org/article/doi/10.3934/naco.2023014)

[Journal of Scientific Computing 2022] [Solving Stochastic Optimal Control Problem via Stochastic Maximum Principle with Deep Learning Method](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10915-022-01979-5)

[Computers & Graphics][Notions of optimal transport theory and how to implement them on a computer](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1710.02634)

[AMS Short Course on Discrete Differential Geometry][Optimal Transport on Discrete Domains](https://people.csail.mit.edu/jsolomon/assets/optimal_transport.pdf)

[SIAM Journal on Mathematical Analysis][Almost-Sure Stability of the Single Mode Solution of a Noisy Nonlinear Autoparametric System](https://epubs.siam.org/doi/10.1137/23M1556502)

Commit message:

update 6th sharing by Yuxuan Shi!

README.md, after:

# Awesome SDE(Stochastic Differential Equation)
## List of some reference books.
### About Stochastic Differential Equation:

1. [Applied Stochastic Differential Equations by Simo Särkkä](./reference/Applied%20stochastic%20differential%20equations%20(Saarkk,%20Simo%20Solin,%20Arno).pdf) -- [Code](https://github.com/AaltoML/SDE)

1. [An introduction to computational Stochastic PDEs by Gabriel J.Lord](./reference/Introduction%20to%20stochastic%20calculus%20with%20application_Kelbaner.pdf) -- [Official Code](./PICSPDE-PICSPDE/);
Our code [Personal code](https://github.com/Zebrainy-cgy/learnSDE)

### About Optimal Transport:

1. [Optimal Transport for Applied Mathematicians by Filippo Santambrogio](./reference/Optimal_transport_for_applied_mathematicians.pdf)

2. [Computational Optimal Transport: With Applications to Data Science](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8641476)

3. [Optimal Transport by Cedric Villani](./reference/C%20dric%20Villani%20é%20Optimal%20Transport.pdf)

### About Control theory...

1. [An Introduction to Mathematical Optimal Control Theory by Lawrence C. Evans](https://math.berkeley.edu/~evans/control.course.pdf)

2. [Kalman filter](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kalman_filter#)

### About Backward stochastic differential equations

1. [Nonlinear Expectations, Nonlinear Evaluations and Risk Measures by Peng](https://link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.1007/978-3-540-44644-6_4.pdf)

2. [Backward Stochastic Differential Equations in Finance by N.El Karoui S.Peng and M.C.Quenez](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/1467-9965.00022)


## Seminar slides
[18/10/2024] Conditional expectation Brownian motion and stochastic integrals (Guojiang Shao) [**Video**](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1KKCmY4E55/?spm_id_from=333.999.0.0&vd_source=4bc987028313212ccd814d6c4d888423) [**Note**](./Notes/Shao_Class_A%20First%20Course%20Of%20Sde.pdf)

[25/10/2024] Ito formula and SDEs (Guojiang Shao) [**Video**](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV15myXYoEdY/?spm_id_from=333.1007.top_right_bar_window_history.content.click&vd_source=4bc987028313212ccd814d6c4d888423) [**Note**](./Notes/Shao-Class-Second%20Course%20Of%20Sde.pdf)

[01/11/2024] Numerical methods for Ito SODEs (Guanyu Chen) [**Video**](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1JUSdYpEAs/?spm_id_from=333.999.0.0&vd_source=4bc987028313212ccd814d6c4d888423) 
[**Note**](./Notes/3_Guanyu_class_note.pdf)

[09/11/2024] Stationary Process and Random Field (Guanyu Chen) [**Video**](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1anDzY8EKU/?spm_id_from=333.880.my_history.page.click&vd_source=4bc987028313212ccd814d6c4d888423) 
[**Note**](./Notes/4_Guanyu_class_note.pdf)

[15/11/2024] Introduction to SPDEs and its Numerical methods (Guanyu Chen) [**Video**](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV14fmZYvEpE/?spm_id_from=333.999.0.0&vd_source=4bc987028313212ccd814d6c4d888423) 
[**Note**](./Notes/5_Guanyu_note.pdf)

[22/11/2024] Introduction to Optimal Transport (Yuxuan Shi) [**Video**](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1WTB2YuEU6/?spm_id_from=333.999.0.0&vd_source=4bc987028313212ccd814d6c4d888423) [**Note**](./Notes/6th_YuxuanShi.pdf)

## Paper

[Arxiv 2017] [Deep learning-based numerical methods for high-dimensional parabolic partial differential equations and backward stochastic differential equations](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1706.04702)

[JMLR 2020] [Reinforcement Learning in Continuous Time and Space: A Stochastic Control Approach](https://www.jmlr.org/papers/volume21/19-144/19-144.pdf)

[JMLR 2023] [q-Learning in Continuous Time](https://www.jmlr.org/papers/volume24/22-0755/22-0755.pdf)

[Arxiv 2022] [Stochastic Physics-Informed Neural Ordinary Differential Equations](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2109.01621)

[University of Calgary 2021] [Deep Learning-based Numerical Methods for Stochastic Partial Differential Equations and Applications](https://prism.ucalgary.ca/server/api/core/bitstreams/b7211227-7bce-4b1a-81d4-80a35c37c680/content)

[Applied Mathematical Modelling 2023] [Neural network stochastic differential equation models with applications to financial data forecasting](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0307904X22005340)

[Numerical Algebra, Control and Optimization 2023] [Inverse problems for stochastic partial differential equations: Some progresses and open problems](https://www.aimsciences.org/article/doi/10.3934/naco.2023014)

[Journal of Scientific Computing 2022] [Solving Stochastic Optimal Control Problem via Stochastic Maximum Principle with Deep Learning Method](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10915-022-01979-5)

[Computers & Graphics][Notions of optimal transport theory and how to implement them on a computer](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1710.02634)

[AMS Short Course on Discrete Differential Geometry][Optimal Transport on Discrete Domains](https://people.csail.mit.edu/jsolomon/assets/optimal_transport.pdf)

[SIAM Journal on Mathematical Analysis][Almost-Sure Stability of the Single Mode Solution of a Noisy Nonlinear Autoparametric System](https://epubs.siam.org/doi/10.1137/23M1556502)
